Improved API and Developer guide (#220)
sodascience/metasyn: docs/source/developer/distributions.rst

        def __init__(self, lower=0, upper=1):
            self.lower = lower
            self.upper = upper

        @classmethod
        def default_distribution(cls): 
            return cls(0, 1) # default distribution with lower=0 and upper=1

        @classmethod
        def _param_schema(cls):
            return {
                "lower": {"type": "number"},
                "upper": {"type": "number"},
            }

        @classmethod
        def _fit(cls, values):
            lower = min(values)
            upper = max(values)
            return cls(lower, upper)

        def draw(self):
            return random.uniform(self.lower, self.upper)

        def _param_dict(self):
            return {"lower": self.lower, "upper": self.upper}

And then add it to the BuiltinDistributionProvider list in the :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.provider` module:

.. code-block:: python

    import NewDistribution

    class BuiltinDistributionProvider(BaseDistributionProvider):
    """Distribution tree that includes the builtin distributions."""

    name = "builtin"
    version = "1.1"
    distributions = [
        # ... other distributions
        NewDistribution,
    ]

> Note that this is a barebones example and that the implementation of the distribution will vary depending on the type of distribution being implemented. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this is a bare-bones example and that the implementation of the distribution will vary depending on the type of distribution being implemented. 
```

Distributions 
=============

This page is intended to provide an overview of how distributions are implemented and organized in ``metasyn``. It should help you understand how to create new distributions, or modify existing ones. 

For a detailed overview of classes, methods and attributes mentioned on this page, refer to the :doc:`/api/metasyn`. Clicking on object names will automatically take you to their API reference page.

> Distribution subpackage

Author: I do like having it here. I think this page serves to provide a birds-eye overview of what's relevant to creating new distributions, it doesn't bloat the page up, and provides nice references to the API for who-ever wants to read more. Once the API is more fleshed out, maybe information can be moved over there, but until then I'd rather keep this.

------------------------

:mod:`~metasyn.distribution` is an essential subpackage that contains (submodules with) classes used to represent and handle various distributions. 

The modules are :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.base`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.categorical`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.continuous`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.datetime`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.discrete`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.faker`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.na` and :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.regex`. 

:mod:`~metasyn.distribution.base` contains the base classes for all distributions, while the other modules implement distributions for their respective variable types.

An overview of the distributions each module implements, and from which it inherits, is shown below:

> .. image:: /images/distributions.svg

Author: Yeah, I am thinking the same thing. It is very nice in theory, but impossible to maintain. I'm scrapping it for now.

   :alt: Metasyn distributions
   :scale: 100%

Base submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The base module contains the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution` class, which is the base class for all distributions. It also contains the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.ScipyDistribution` class, which is a specialized base class for distributions that are built on top of SciPy's statistical distributions. 

Additionally it contains the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.UniqueDistributionMixin` class, which is a mixin class that can be used to make a distribution unique (i.e., one that does not contain duplicate values).

Finally it contains the :func:`~metasyn.distribution.metadist` decorator, which is used to set the attributes of a distribution.

> BaseDistribution class

Author: That said, keeping redundancy and ease of maintaining in mind, I am tweaking the page a bit.

| version    | The version of the distribution.                                        | ``"1.0"``, ``"2.3"``, etc.                  |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

Though they can be set manually, the intended way of setting these attributes is through the use of the ``metadist`` decorator (which is covered further below).

.. admonition:: Note on 'implements' attributes

    The naming convention for the ``implements`` attribute is: 
    
    ``<provider_list_prefix>.<distribution_name>``
    
    Distributions that are part of the core metasyn distribution provider list should use ``core`` as the prefix, e.g. ``core.multinoulli``.

BaseDistribution class has a series of abstract methods that *must be* implemeted by derived classes, these are:

- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution._fit` to contain the fitting logic for the distribution. It does not need to handle N/A values. 
- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution.draw` to draw a new value from the distribution.

> - :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution._param_dict` to return a dictionary of the distribution's parameters. 

Author: Fixed most of these now. Some methods are simply not detected by autodoc for some reason, I'll investigate that later.

Distributions 
=============

Distributions subpackage
------------------------

The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution` is an essential subpackage that contains (submodules with) classes used to represent and handle various distributions. 

The modules are :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.base`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.categorical`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.continuous`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.datetime`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.discrete`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.faker`, :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.na` and :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.regex`. 

:mod:`~metasyn.distribution.base` contains the base classes for all distributions, while the other modules implement distributions for their respective variable types.

An overview of the distributions each module implements, and from which it inherits, is shown below:

> .. image:: /images/distributions.svg

Author: It is currently not mentioned no, I will make an issue to add it to the wiki upon merging this PR.

   :alt: Metasyn distributions
   :scale: 100%

Base submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The base module contains the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution` class, which is the base class for all distributions. It also contains the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.ScipyDistribution` class, which is a specialized base class for distributions that are built on top of SciPy's statistical distributions. 

Additionally it contains the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.UniqueDistributionMixin` class, which is a mixin class that can be used to indicate that a distribution is unique (i.e., that it does not contain duplicate values).

Finally it contains the :func:`~metasyn.distribution.metadist` decorator, which is used to set the attributes of a distribution (e.g., ``implements``, ``var_type``, etc.).

BaseDistribution class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This is the base class providing the basic structure for all distributions. It is not intended to be used directly, but rather to be derived from when implementing a new distribution.

**Attributes:**

> 

Author: Yep, good one.

- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution._params_formatted`: Provides a formatted string of the distribution's parameters for easy readability.

**Methods:**

- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution.fit`: Class method to fit a distribution to a given series. 
- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution._fit`: Abstract class method intended to contain the fitting logic for the distribution. It does not need to handle N/A values. **It must be implemented by derived classes.**
- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution._to_series`: Static method converting different data types (Polars Series, Pandas Series, or sequences) into a Polars Series, handling null values appropriately.
- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution.draw`: Abstract method, intended to draw a new value from the distribution. **It must be implemented by derived classes.**
- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution.draw_reset`: Method to reset the distribution's drawing mechanism. This should be implemented if the drawing does not happen randomly.
- :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution._param_dict`: Abstract method to return a dictionary of the distribution's parameters. 

> - :meth:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution.to_dict`: Method to create a dictionary representation of the distribution. **It must be implemented by derived classes.**

Author: Ah, dang, I already had my suspicions, but the docstring in BaseDistribution specifically mentions these three. I'll make an issue to change the docstring to avoid confusion.

.. code-block:: python

    @metadist(implements="core.unique_regex", var_type="string", is_unique=True)
    class UniqueRegexDistribution(UniqueDistributionMixin, RegexDistribution):

.. code-block:: python

    @metadist(implements="core.unique_faker", var_type="string")
    class UniqueFakerDistribution(UniqueDistributionMixin, FakerDistribution):

Metadist decorator method
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
When implementing a new distribution, the ``metadist`` decorator helps set the attributes of that distribution (e.g. ``implements``, ``var_type``, etc.). 

**Parameters:**

- ``implements``: A unique name for the distribution type, e.g. ``core.uniform`` or ``core.poisson``. 
- ``var_type``: The type of variable associated with the distribution, e.g. ``discrete`` or ``continuous``.
- ``provenance``: Information about the source (core, plugin, etc.) of the distribution.
- ``privacy``: The privacy class or implementation associated with the distribution.
- ``is_unique``: A boolean indicating whether the values in the distribution are unique.
- ``version``: The version of the distribution. 

.. admonition:: Note

>     Note that the parameters are the same as the attributes of the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution` class.

Reviewer: I think this might some clarification. Maybe that it simply sets the class attributes of the BaseDistribution? Now it sounds a bit like it is an accident or something.

Author: You're right. I have opted to remove the parameter bit altogheter and rephrase the rest, as it was a bit redundant anyways.

To use the ``metadist`` decorator, annotate the custom distribution class with ``@metadist``, passing in the attributes of the target distribution as parameters.

For example, the following distributions use the decorator as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    @metadist(implements="core.multinoulli", var_type=["categorical", "discrete", "string"])
    class MultinoulliDistribution(BaseDistribution):

.. code-block:: python

    @metadist(implements="core.unique_regex", var_type="string", is_unique=True)
    class UniqueRegexDistribution(UniqueDistributionMixin, RegexDistribution):

.. code-block:: python
      
    @metadist(implements="core.uniform_date", var_type="date")
    class UniformDateDistribution(BaseUniformDistribution):

> The ``metadist`` decorator is implemented automatically as part of the main ``metasyn`` package. 

Reviewer: What do you mean with automatically?

Author: I struggled with phrasing, but I mean that it's directly accessible as metasyn directly imports it from the subpackage. I have changed it to 

```
The ``metadist`` decorator, which is a part of the :mod:`metasyn.distribution.base` submodule, is directly accessible when importing the main metasyn package, as it's explicitly and relatively imported upon importing the main metasyn package.
```

Which I think is the proper terminology for this.

Categorical submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.categorical` module contain the :class:`metasyn.distribution.categorical.MultinoulliDistribution` class, which is used for categorical distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.categorical` module contains the :class:`metasyn.distribution.categorical.MultinoulliDistribution` class, which is used for categorical distributions.
```

Continuous submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.continuous` module contains the classes used for continuous distributions.

DateTime submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.datetime` module contains the classes used for ``DateTime`` distributions.

Reviewer: Maybe it's better to say, time, date and datetime.

Discrete submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.discrete` module contains the classes used to for discrete distributions.

Faker submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.faker` module contains the classes used for distributions that are based on the `Faker <https://faker.readthedocs.io/en/master/>`_ package.

NA submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.na` module contains the :class:`metasyn.distribution.NADistribution` class, a distribution which generates *only* NA values.

Regex submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.regex` module contains the classes for distributions that are based on regular expressions. It implements the open source `regexmodel <https://github.com/sodascience/regexmodel>`_ package. 

> There is also a legacy module :mod:`~metasyn.distribution.legacy.regex` that contains the old implementation of the regex distribution. 

Reviewer: I would remove this.

Creating a new distribution
---------------------------

New distributions can be created by either directly inheriting from a base class such as the :class:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution` (or a specialized base class such as :class:`~metasyn.distribution.ScipyDistribution`)

For example, let's say we want to implement a new series of similar distributions, we can create a base class inheriting from :class:`~metasyn.distribution.BaseDistribution`:

.. code-block:: python

>     from metasyn.distribution.base import BaseDistribution, metadist

Reviewer: I personally wouldn't really advise this in the developer's manual. Obviously it is possible and it is done in many places in the code, but I would just suggest creating a new distribution from one of the already existing base classes. If they want to create a new base class, be my guest, but they probably already know what they're doing anyway.

    class BaseNewDistribution(BaseDistribution):
        """Base class for new distribution.
        This base class makes it easy to implement variations of this distribution for different variable types.
        """

        # implementation details here

Then we can create distributions for different variable types by inheriting from this base class, and using the ``metadist`` decorator to set the proper attributes. 

.. admonition:: Important

    In cases where there are multiple variations of a distribution for different data types, such as in the example given in this section, or the ``core.uniform`` distributions in ``metasyn``. 
    

>     In this case, the metasyn convention is to put the data type **after** the distribution name, e.g. ``core.uniform_discrete``, ``core.uniform_datetime``, ``core.uniform_date``, etc.

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure we'll end up with only "core.uniform", so I'll leave a comment here for this to be changed if that is indeed the case.

Author: Yep, for now I'll keep it as is. But once we change the naming scheme I will update this accordingly.

We can create a new distribution for continuous, discrete and string variables as follows (note that the implementation here is a basic implementation serving as an example):

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer: I think it might be nicer to have a single example, with all 5 mandatory methods "implemented". Also, we should explain whether you should use "core.*" or "extra.*", "user.*", etc.
